------------------------------------------------------------------------
                            CALL FOR PAPERS

                               QUDOS 2018
            4th International Workshop on Quality-Aware DevOps

                         Co-located with the

   9th ACM/SPEC International Conference on Performance Engineering
                             (ICPE 2018)

                          Berlin, Germany
                           April 10, 2018

                  http://2018.qudos-workshop.org/
                  https://twitter.com/qudos_workshop
------------------------------------------------------------------------
IMPORTANT DATES

Full paper submission deadline          Jan 23, 2018* (AoE, firm)
Tool paper submission deadline          Jan 23, 2018* (AoE, firm)
Paper notification                      Feb 09, 2018
Camera-ready deadline                   Feb 18, 2018
Workshop date                           April 10, 2018

* deadline extended
------------------------------------------------------------------------
SCOPE AND TOPICS

The QUDOS workshop provides a forum for experts from academia and
industry to present and discuss novel quality-aware methods, practices
and tools for DevOps.

DevOps extends the agile development principles to include the full
stack of software services, from design to execution, enabling and
promoting collaboration of operations, quality assurance, and
development engineers throughout the entire service lifecycle.
Ultimately, DevOps is a process that enables faster releases of a better
product to the end user. DevOps encompasses a set of values, principles,
methods, practices, and tools, to accelerate software delivery to the
customer by means of infrastructure as code, continuous integration and
deployment, automated testing and monitoring, or new architectural
styles such as microservices.

Software engineering research mainly deals with the development aspects
of DevOps, focusing on development methods, practices, and tools,
leaving the quality assurance aspects of DevOps behind. Even though
development practices such as testing (at all levels) are instrumental
in producing quality software, they mostly deal with the functional
correctness, while quality assurance deals with a more broadly defined
concept of quality, of which functional correctness is just one
dimension. However, DevOps needs methods and tools that enable
systematic assessment, prediction, and management of software quality in
other dimensions as well, including performance, reliability, safety,
survivability, or cost of ownership.

The QUDOS workshop aims to provide a venue for advances in the state of
the art in DevOps quality assurance methods, practices, and tools. To
this end, the workshop brings together experts from both academia and
industry, working in diverse areas such as quality assurance, testing,
performance engineering, agile software engineering, and model-based
development, with the goal to identify, define, and disseminate novel
quality-aware approaches to DevOps.

Topics of interest include, but are not limited to:

 * Foundations of quality assurance in DevOps:
   Methodologies; integration with lifecycle management; automated
   tool chains; architecture patterns; etc.
 * Architectural issues in DevOps:
   Scalability and capacity planning; scale-out architectures;
   cloud-native application design; microservice-based architectures
 * Quality assurance in the development phase:
   Software models and requirements in early software development
   phases; functional and non-functional testing; languages,
   annotations and profiles for quality assurance; quality analysis,
   verification and prediction; optimization-based architecture design;
   etc.
 * Quality assurance during operation:
   Application performance monitoring; model-driven performance
   measurement and benchmarking; feedback-based quality assurance;
   capacity planning and forecasting; architectural improvements;
   performance anti-pattern detection; traceability and versioning;
   trace and log analysis; software regression and testing; performance
   monitoring and analytics; etc.
 * Continuous deployment and live experimentation:
   CI and CD in DevOps; canary releases and partial rollouts; A/B
   testing; performance and scalability testing via shadow launches
 * Applications of DevOps:
   Case Studies in cloud computing, Big Data, and IoT; standardization
   and interoperability; novel application domains, etc.
 * All other topics related to quality in DevOps and agile service
   delivery models

For more details, please visit: http://2018.qudos-workshop.org/

------------------------------------------------------------------------
ORGANIZING COMMITTEE

Program Committee Chairs
 Lubomír Bulej, Charles University, Czech Republic
 Antonio Filieri, Imperial College London, United Kingdom

Workshop Chairs (Steering Committee)
 Danilo Ardagna, Politecnico di Milano, Italy
 Giuliano Casale, Imperial College London, UK
 Andre van Hoorn, University of Stuttgart, Germany
 Philipp Leitner, Chalmers | University of Gothenburg, Sweden

Program Committee
 Varsha Apte, IIT Bombay, India
 Alberto Avritzer, Sonatype, USA
 Cor-Paul Bezemer, Queen's University, Canada
 Andreas Brunnert, RETIT, Germany
 David Carrera, Universitat Politècnica de Catalunya, Spain
 Jürgen Cito, University of Zurich, Switzerland
 Nikolas Herbst, University of Würzburg, Germany
 Geir Horn, University of Oslo, Norway
 Zhen Ming (Jack) Jiang, York University, Canada
 Klaus-Dieter Lange, Hewlett Packard Enterprise, USA
 Marin Litoiu, York University, Canada
 Zoltán Adam Mann, University of Duisburg-Essen, Germany
 Claus Pahl, Free University of Bozen-Bolzano, Italy
 Cesare Pautasso, University of Lugano, Switzerland
 Diego Pérez-Palacín, University of Zaragoza, Spain
 Dorina Petriu, Carleton University, Canada
 Meikel Poess, Oracle, USA
 Weiyi Shang, Concordia University, Canada
 Josef Spillner, ZHAW Winterthur, Switzerland
 Damian Andrew Tamburri, Politecnico di Milano, Italy
 Asser Tantawi, IBM Research, USA
 Catia Trubiani, Gran Sasso Science Institute, Italy
 Petr Tůma, Charles University, Czech Republic
 Ingo Weber, NICTA, Australia
 Erik Wilde, CA API Academy, USA

Web Chair
 Teerat Pitakrat, University of Stuttgart, Germany

------------------------------------------------------------------------
SUBMISSION GUIDELINES

Authors are invited to submit original, unpublished papers that are not
being considered in another forum.  We solicit full papers (max 6 pages)
and short tool papers (max 2 pages). All submissions must conform to the
ACM conference format. Each full paper submission will be reviewed by at
least three members of the program committee.

Papers should be submitted via EasyChair at:
https://easychair.org/conferences/?conf=qudos2018

At least one author of each accepted paper is required to attend the
workshop and present the paper. Presented papers will be published by
ACM and included in the ACM Digital Library.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
JOURNAL SPECIAL ISSUE

Authors of selected papers will be invited after the workshop to submit
an extended version of their work to the Big Data and Cognitive
Computing journal.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
ORGANIZATION AND SUPPORT

QUDOS 2018 is organized and technically sponsored by the Research Group
(RG) and the RG DevOps Performance Working Group of the Standard
Performance Evaluation Corporation (SPEC RG, http://research.spec.org),
and by the consortium of the EU project DICE (http://dice-h2020.eu).

QUDOS 2018 is supported by the IFIP Working Group on Service Oriented
Systems (http://ifip-wg-sos.deib.polimi.it/) and by the DFG Priority
Programme 1593 (SPP 1593) "Design For Future - Managed Software
Evolution" (http://www.dfg-spp1593.de/), funded by the German Research
Foundation (DFG). 
